src/assembly/linux/main/README.md, before:

# Linux Demo

 ![`Adamant running on Linux`](img/linux_cmd_line.png "Adamant running on Linux")

This demo will walk you through how to build and run an [Adamant](https://github.com/lasp/adamant) assembly inside the
Linux development environment. Running Adamant on Linux can aid in designing and troubleshooting many problems before deploying
on more demanding hardware, like the [Raspberry Pi Pico](../../pico/main/README.md).

## First Things First

 1. Make sure you have your Adamant Linux build [environment](../../../../docker/README.md) set up.
 2. Explore the [design](../doc/linux_example.pdf) of the Linux assembly.
 3. Make sure you are familiar with the Adamant [architecture design](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/architecture_description_document/architecture_description_document.pdf) and know where to find the [user guide](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf).

## Building and running the Binary

From this directory in your Adamant Linux environment run:

```
$ redo run
```

This will compile the assembly and create the Linux binary at `build/bin/Linux/main.elf`. After compilation is complete
the binary will automatically be started in the terminal. You should begin to see the software output events periodically
as it runs, like:

```
Starting Linux demo... Use Ctrl+C to exit.
0000168822.872929071 - Ccsds_Socket_Interface_Instance.Socket_Connected (0x00000085) : (Ip_Address = [C0 A8 41 02], Port = 2003)
0000168823.861770448 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 1)
0000168825.862075414 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 2)
0000168827.862054941 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 3)
...
```
## Commanding and Telemetry with OpenC3 [COSMOS](https://github.com/OpenC3/cosmos)

 ![`Commanding and Telemetry with OpenC3 COSMOS`](img/cosmos.png "Commanding and Telemetry with OpenC3 COSMOS")
 
To best interact with the Linux assembly, we need to use a ground system interface, such as OpenC3 COSMOS. To install COSMOS, navigate to an appropriate directory on your host machine and clone the COSMOS example project repository:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/openc3/cosmos-project.git
```

The COSMOS Docker container must be configured to use the same ports as Adamant. Edit this configuration at `cosmos-project/compose.yaml` and add the following entry to the `openc3-operator:` section:

```
    ports:
      - "2003:2003/tcp"
```

Start COSMOS by running:

```
$ cd cosmos-project
$ ./openc3.sh start
```

After the containers start, open a web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:2900`. You will be prompted to configure a password, and then presented with the COSMOS interface. Some modules may still be loading, but after a minute the interface should be complete. Navigate to `ADMIN CONSOLE` and uninstall the "openc3-cosmos-demo" plugin by selecting the `Delete Plugin` icon.

OpenC3 COSMOS runs inside of its own Docker containers. The COSMOS example project provides the necessary tools and commands to create an interface plugin from our generated configuration files. While still in the `cosmos-project` directory, run:

```
$ ./openc3.sh cli generate plugin LINUX_EXAMPLE
```

This creates a new directory called `openc3-cosmos-linux-example`. Next, run:

```
$ cd openc3-cosmos-linux-example
$ ../openc3.sh cli generate target LINUX_EXAMPLE
```

This creates the plugin directory structure as well as template configuration files that our generated configuration will replace. These files are located at:

```
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/plugin.txt
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/targets/LINUX_EXAMPLE/cmd_tlm/cmd.txt
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/targets/LINUX_EXAMPLE/cmd_tlm/tlm.txt
```

After installing and running COSMOS we need to build the Linux Example plugin configuration files. This will allow COSMOS to decode telemetry from the Adamant virtual environment and properly format outgoing commands.

These files are autocoded by Adamant. From the Adamant virtual environment run:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ redo cosmos_config
```

This generates the command and telemetry configurations in the `adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/build/cosmos/plugin/` directory. The plugin configuration file is located in the `adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/cosmos/plugin/` directory, and should be reviewed to ensure the interface and required protocols are correct, before copying to the COSMOS plugin directory. By default, this configuration applies settings specific to this example and should be modified for other configurations.

The helper script, which takes the relative path from the top level of the assembly to the COSMOS install directory as an argument, copies the plugin configuration files, and any custom protocols used by the configuration, to the correct directories. If the COSMOS and Adamant example project directories are adjacent, complete the configuration by running:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ ./install_cosmos_plugin.sh cosmos-project
```

The plugin can now be compiled. Next, run:

```
$ cd cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example
$ ../openc3.sh cli rake build VERSION=1.0.0
```

In the COSMOS Admin Console, select `Click to select plugin .gem file to install` and navigate to the compiled plugin gem file at `cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/openc3-cosmos-linux-example-1.0.0.gem` to install our generated plugin. The plugin is templated to allow changing of parameters such as ports, but the default values are already set to correspond with this project.

The plugin will be installed. Return to the Adamant virtual environment and start the Linux assembly by running:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ redo run
```

In the Log Messages panel you should see that the TCPIP server has accepted a new connection from Adamant once the assembly is up and running.

With COSMOS running, here are some interesting things you can try:

 1. View messages generated from the Linux assembly in the main panel.
 2. View telemetry from the Counter and Oscillator components by opening the `Telemetry Grapher` panel and selecting the "LINUX_EXAMPLE" target, "HOUSEKEEPING_PACKET" packet, "OSCILLATOR_A.OSCILLATOR_VALUE.VALUE" as item, and selecting "Add Item".
 3. Send any command by selecting it in the `Command Sender` panel. Try sending a NOOP or changing the Oscillator frequencies by selecting "Oscillator_A-Set_Frequency", changing "Value", and selecting "Send".
 4. View the queue usage for each component by opening the `Packet Viewer` panel and selecting "HOUSEKEEPING_PACKET".
 5. Send an interrupt to the running assembly by running `sh send_interrupt.sh` from within another terminal in the Adamant virtual environment.

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ sh send_interrupt.sh
```

You should see the software respond by printing out `Interrupt received` with a time stamp in the terminal where `redo run` was started.

## Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra

 ![`Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra`](../../pico/main/img/hydra.jpg "Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra")

*Note that Hydra is not yet publicly available, but will be made so in the future. The instructions below serve as an example of how you could interact with this assembly with any ground system.*

To best interact with the Linux assembly, we need to use a ground system interface, such as Hydra. Before running
Hydra we need to build the Hydra configuration files. This will allow Hydra to decode telemetry from the Linux assembly and properly format
outgoing commands.

From this directory in your Adamant environment run:

```
$ redo hydra_config
```

You can also translate the produced Hydra configuration files to work with another ground system.

Hydra will listen on a network socket for connections on port 2003 of your host machine. The Linux assembly will periodically try to
connect to Hydra on this port.

With the Linux assembly running, see the previous section, open Hydra on your host machine and select your project directory as
`src/assembly/linux/main/hydra`.

Hydra will start up and you should see events being received every two seconds from the Linux assembly over the socket in the main panel.

With Hydra running, here are some interesting things you can try:

 1. View events generated from the Linux assembly in the main panel.
 2. View telemetry from the Counter and Oscillator components by opening the `Display Page -> custom -> plots` panel.
 3. Send any command by double clicking a line in the `View -> All Commands` panel. Try sending a NOOP or changing the Oscillator frequencies.
 4. View the queue usage for each component by opening the `Display Page -> linux_example -> linux_example_queue_monitor` panel.
 5. Send an interrupt to the running assembly by running `sh send_interrupt.sh` from a new SSH session within within the Linux environment. You should see the software respond by printing out `Interrupt received` with a time stamp in the terminal where `redo run` was started.

## What's Next

Now that you have Adamant running on Linux, it is time to make it your own. Try modifying or adding a component. Follow the tutorials
in the [user guide](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) to get going.

Other things to look at:

 * Check out the example running on the [Raspberry Pi Pico](../../pico/main/README.md)
 * [Learn more about Ada](https://learn.adacore.com/)

Commit message:

Add serial support for cosmos with a mac host
Since serial ports are not passable through to cosmos running on Docker
on a Mac, we provide a serial_tcp_bridge to forward serial traffic from
the Pico over TCP to COSMOS. This commit also wraps in some cleanup for
the installation scripts, and updates the READMEs appropriately.

src/assembly/linux/main/README.md, after:

# Linux Demo

 ![`Adamant running on Linux`](img/linux_cmd_line.png "Adamant running on Linux")

This demo will walk you through how to build and run an [Adamant](https://github.com/lasp/adamant) assembly inside the
Linux development environment. Running Adamant on Linux can aid in designing and troubleshooting many problems before deploying
on more demanding hardware, like the [Raspberry Pi Pico](../../pico/main/README.md).

## First Things First

 1. Make sure you have your Adamant Linux build [environment](../../../../docker/README.md) set up.
 2. Explore the [design](../doc/linux_example.pdf) of the Linux assembly.
 3. Make sure you are familiar with the Adamant [architecture design](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/architecture_description_document/architecture_description_document.pdf) and know where to find the [user guide](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf).

## Building and running the Binary

From this directory in your Adamant Linux environment run:

```
$ redo run
```

This will compile the assembly and create the Linux binary at `build/bin/Linux/main.elf`. After compilation is complete
the binary will automatically be started in the terminal. You should begin to see the software output events periodically
as it runs, like:

```
Starting Linux demo... Use Ctrl+C to exit.
0000168822.872929071 - Ccsds_Socket_Interface_Instance.Socket_Connected (0x00000085) : (Ip_Address = [C0 A8 41 02], Port = 2003)
0000168823.861770448 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 1)
0000168825.862075414 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 2)
0000168827.862054941 - Counter_Instance.Sending_Value (0x00000091) : (Value = 3)
...
```
## Commanding and Telemetry with [COSMOS](https://github.com/OpenC3/cosmos)

 ![`Commanding and Telemetry with OpenC3 COSMOS`](img/cosmos.png "Commanding and Telemetry with OpenC3 COSMOS")

To best interact with the Linux assembly, we need to use a ground system interface, such as OpenC3 [COSMOS](https://github.com/OpenC3/cosmos). To install COSMOS, navigate to an appropriate directory on your host machine and clone the COSMOS example project repository:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/openc3/cosmos-project.git
```

The COSMOS Docker container must be configured to use the same ports as Adamant. Edit this configuration at `cosmos-project/compose.yaml` and add the following entry to the `openc3-operator:` section:

```
    ports:
      - "2003:2003/tcp"
```

Start COSMOS by running:

```
$ cd cosmos-project
$ ./openc3.sh start
```

After the containers start, open a web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:2900`. You will be prompted to configure a password, and then presented with the COSMOS interface. Some modules may still be loading, but after a minute the interface should be complete. Navigate to `ADMIN CONSOLE` and uninstall the "openc3-cosmos-demo" plugin by selecting the `Delete Plugin` icon.

OpenC3 COSMOS runs inside of its own Docker containers. The COSMOS example project provides the necessary tools and commands to create an interface plugin from our generated configuration files. While still in the `cosmos-project` directory, run:

```
$ ./openc3.sh cli generate plugin LINUX_EXAMPLE
```

This creates a new directory called `openc3-cosmos-linux-example`. Next, run:

```
$ cd openc3-cosmos-linux-example
$ ../openc3.sh cli generate target LINUX_EXAMPLE
```

This creates the plugin directory structure as well as template configuration files that our generated configuration will replace. These files are located at:

```
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/plugin.txt
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/targets/LINUX_EXAMPLE/cmd_tlm/cmd.txt
cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/targets/LINUX_EXAMPLE/cmd_tlm/tlm.txt
```

After installing and running COSMOS we need to build the Linux Example plugin configuration files. This will allow COSMOS to decode telemetry from the Adamant virtual environment and properly format outgoing commands.

These files are autocoded by Adamant. *From the Adamant virtual environment* run:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ redo cosmos_config
```

This generates the command and telemetry configurations in the `adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/build/cosmos/plugin/` directory. Note that the main plugin configuration file is located in `adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main/cosmos/plugin/`. This file should be reviewed to ensure the interface and required protocols are correct for your configuration. All of these files will be installed into the COSMOS plugin in the following steps.

Next, run the helper script to install the Adamant plugin configuration files to the COSMOS plugin directory. *The following should be run from the host machine*. If the COSMOS and Adamant example project directories are adjacent, the command to install the configuration would be:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ ./install_cosmos_plugin.sh ../../../../../cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/
```

The plugin can now be compiled. Next, run:

```
$ cd ../../../../../cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/
$ ../openc3.sh cli rake build VERSION=1.0.0
```

In the COSMOS Admin Console, select `Click to select plugin .gem file to install` and navigate to the compiled plugin gem file at `cosmos-project/openc3-cosmos-linux-example/openc3-cosmos-linux-example-1.0.0.gem` to install our generated plugin. The plugin is templated to allow changing of parameters such as ports, but the default values are already set to correspond with this project.

The plugin will be installed. Return to the Adamant virtual environment and start the Linux assembly by running:

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ redo run
```

In the Log Messages panel you should see that the TCPIP server has accepted a new connection from Adamant once the assembly is up and running.

With COSMOS running, here are some interesting things you can try:

 1. View messages generated from the Linux assembly in the main panel.
 2. View telemetry from the Counter and Oscillator components by opening the `Telemetry Grapher` panel and selecting the "LINUX_EXAMPLE" target, "HOUSEKEEPING_PACKET" packet, "OSCILLATOR_A.OSCILLATOR_VALUE.VALUE" as item, and selecting "Add Item".
 3. Send any command by selecting it in the `Command Sender` panel. Try sending a NOOP or changing the Oscillator frequencies by selecting "Oscillator_A-Set_Frequency", changing "Value", and selecting "Send".
 4. View the queue usage for each component by opening the `Packet Viewer` panel and selecting "HOUSEKEEPING_PACKET".
 5. Send an interrupt to the running assembly by running `sh send_interrupt.sh` from within another terminal in the Adamant virtual environment.

```
$ cd adamant_example/src/assembly/linux/main
$ sh send_interrupt.sh
```

You should see the software respond by printing out `Interrupt received` with a time stamp in the terminal where `redo run` was started.

## Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra

 ![`Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra`](../../pico/main/img/hydra.jpg "Commanding and Telemetry with Hydra")

*Note that Hydra is not yet publicly available, but will be made so in the future. The instructions below serve as an example of how you could interact with this assembly with any ground system.*

To best interact with the Linux assembly, we need to use a ground system interface, such as Hydra. Before running
Hydra we need to build the Hydra configuration files. This will allow Hydra to decode telemetry from the Linux assembly and properly format
outgoing commands.

From this directory in your Adamant environment run:

```
$ redo hydra_config
```

You can also translate the produced Hydra configuration files to work with another ground system.

Hydra will listen on a network socket for connections on port 2003 of your host machine. The Linux assembly will periodically try to
connect to Hydra on this port.

With the Linux assembly running, see the previous section, open Hydra on your host machine and select your project directory as
`src/assembly/linux/main/hydra`.

Hydra will start up and you should see events being received every two seconds from the Linux assembly over the socket in the main panel.

With Hydra running, here are some interesting things you can try:

 1. View events generated from the Linux assembly in the main panel.
 2. View telemetry from the Counter and Oscillator components by opening the `Display Page -> custom -> plots` panel.
 3. Send any command by double clicking a line in the `View -> All Commands` panel. Try sending a NOOP or changing the Oscillator frequencies.
 4. View the queue usage for each component by opening the `Display Page -> linux_example -> linux_example_queue_monitor` panel.
 5. Send an interrupt to the running assembly by running `sh send_interrupt.sh` from a new SSH session within within the Linux environment. You should see the software respond by printing out `Interrupt received` with a time stamp in the terminal where `redo run` was started.

## What's Next

Now that you have Adamant running on Linux, it is time to make it your own. Try modifying or adding a component. Follow the tutorials
in the [user guide](https://github.com/lasp/adamant/blob/main/doc/user_guide/user_guide.pdf) to get going.

Other things to look at:

 * Check out the example running on the [Raspberry Pi Pico](../../pico/main/README.md)
 * [Learn more about Ada](https://learn.adacore.com/)
